What is Surf Timer?

How many times have you been on your PC, completely forgot time and that you 
should be somewhere else OR doing something else?

I nearly forgot I had something cooking on the stove once and nearly burnt the 
house down. That is when I came up with the idea for Surf Timer. Surf Timer is 
an alarm you can set to play an audio file or clip at a set time up to 55 
minutes to remind you that you should be doing something else. I use it for a 
variety of roles now and it fits the bill. 

Okay, I got it. How do I configure it?

From the file menu choose Open. Choose from your hard drive any .WAV audio file 
you wish. WAV files are the current format currently supported by Surf Timer in 
its default status for those unfamiliar with the JAVA language and the JVM. 

Once you have selected the audio file/clip you wish Surf Timer to play when the 
time is up, you might want to save the audio file so that it will be the default 
audio clip when you launch at a later date. Choose Save from the File menu then 
OK from the resulting dialog box.

Let’s look at the Surf Timer Window.

At the top you have the current time displayed. This should be the current time 
for your locality.

In the middle of the window we have a widget which allows you to either select 
the number of minutes in 5 minute steps OR enter at the keyboard the number of 
minutes. Next to it is the BUTTON to start the alarm. When the alarm starts the 
BUTTON text changes to stop.

On the bottom you a box which displays 00:00, this is where the time the alarm 
will sound will be displayed when you hit the Start BUTTON. Above the alarm time 
display is text to inform you that the alarm is either set or not set. Below is 
the name of the audio file/clip which will play.

Try it out.

If you have not chosen an audio clip do so now. Make sure it is a .wav file clip. 
Use the keyboard to enter 1 in the widget to set the number of minutes and then hit 
the start button. Notice the time on the bottom has changed to one minute from when 
you hit the start button. Also you now cannot enter the number of minutes when the 
alarm has been set.
You will notice that the background changes to yellow on the alarm time box at the 
bottom. When the minute is up your audio clip should play through your speakers and 
the alarm time box background changes to red.

Okay, it plays, how then do I stop it playing.

Hit the Stop BUTTON. Notice that when the stop button has been used, the alarm time 
resets to 00:00 and you can now enter the number of minutes. You can use the stop 
BUTTON at any time after the alarm has been set to cancel the alarm, even before it 
has sounded.

Can I change the audio clip after I set the default?

YES. Choose Open from the File menu to change the audio clip. If you do change the 
audio clip and don’t save it, you will be prompted on closing the window on whether 
you want to save your new audio clip as the default.

You can exit the application by choosing Exit from the file menu or by closing the 
window as usual from the x in the top corner.

Enjoy using Surf Timer.
